we begin with some breaking news the
United States and Britain have begun
carrying out Military strikes against
Targets in Yemen the targets are linked
to the iran-backed houi rebels who
control much of the country explosions
have been reported in the capital S and
elsewhere the houis have been attacking
shipping in the Red Sea for weeks now
they say they're supporting the
Palestinian militant group Hamas by
targeting ships linked to
Israel let's get more of detail abusion
dumala and she's been following the
story from for us from Washington DC
Chanel what more do we know about these
strikes well the White House has now
confirmed these strikes so there's now
an official statement from the White
House saying that the US and the UK
authorized these strikes along with
other countries mentioned in the
statement so Australia bin Netherlands
Canada among them we know that uh a
dozen targets were were the target
Target of these strikes and that these
targets included inventories of weapons
weapons that the hooes had been using to
launch their attacks in the Red Sea so
the emerging objective of these air
strikes from the US and and its Partners
appears to be to to be able to send a
message to the hooti saying that the US
and its Partners can and will uh act to
kneecap hou's capabilities to launch
these attacks attacks which have not
only crippled international shipping but
also raised the Spectre of a wider war
in the Middle East now in the statement
that the White House released President
Joe Biden also said that the US will not
tolerate attacks on Personnel or allow
hostile act actors to imperil freedom of
nav navigation and that Biden will not
hesitate uh to act and direct more
protective measures to this end so that
clearly means that this could be the
beginning of what could be a drawn out
process even as Biden is already
starting to uh Garner criticism from
various coroners for acting without
Congress on this and again amid fears of
the us being dragged into a larger
Middle Eastern War something of course
which the US has some experience of so
clearly a warning to the huis but these
attacks have been going on for weeks now
why is this coordinated International
response coming at this point
yes one really does have the sense that
the other shoe has dropped here as you
said these tensions have been simmering
for weeks and the US has been
unequivocal in saying that it does not
in fact want uh to see a spread of the
conflict elsewhere Beyond Israel and
Gaza and in fact preventing that spread
was one of the key objectives of
Secretary of State Anthony's Anthony
blinken's most recent visit most uh to
the Middle East but uh clearly the us
along with the UK has decided that it
has been uh pushed into a position where
they deemed that a response was
necessary that their hand was perhaps
forced on Tuesday we saw the largest
ever barrage of houti missiles and
drones uh against vessels in the Red Sea
and that is widely considered to have
been the last straw that's according to
US military officials and that could be
the main reason why we're seeing the air
strikes that we have seen today tww
Chanel dumal in Washington DC thank you
so much for your
reporting